"In the car crash when your parents died," she had said. "And don't ask questions.
"Don't ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet life with theDursleys.Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon."Comb your hair!" he barked, by way of a morning greeting.About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper andshouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircutsthan the rest of the boys in his class puttogether, but it made no difference, his hair simply grew that way --all over the place.Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with hismother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face,not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that laysmoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudleylooked like a baby angel -- Harry often said that Dudley looked like apig in a wig.Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficultas there wasn't much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents.His face fell."Thirty-six," he said, looking up at his mother and father. "That's twoless than last year.""Darling, you haven't counted Auntie Marge's present, see, it's hereunder this big one from Mommy and Daddy.""All right, thirty-seven then," said Dudley, going red in the face.Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing downhis bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly,"And we'll buy you another two presents while we're out today. How'sthat, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''
16Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he saidslowly, "So I'll have thirty ... thirty...""Thirty-nine, sweetums," said Aunt Petunia."Oh." Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. "All rightthen."Uncle Vernon chuckled. "Little tyke wants his money's worth, just likehis father. 'Atta boy, Dudley!" He ruffled Dudley's hair.At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer itwhile Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, avideo camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, anda VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petuniacame back from the telephone looking both angry and worried."Bad news, Vernon," she said. "Mrs. Figg's broken her leg. She can'ttake him." She jerked her head in Harry's direction.Dudley's mouth fell open in horror, but Harry's heart gave a leap. Everyyear on Dudley's birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for theday, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Everyyear, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived twostreets away. Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbageand Mrs. Figg made him look at photographs of all the cats she'd everowned."Now what?" said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as though he'dplanned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg hadbroken her leg, but it wasn't easy when he reminded himself it would bea whole year before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, andTufty again."We could phone Marge," Uncle Vernon suggested."Don't be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy."The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn'tthere -- or rather, as though he was something very nasty that couldn'tunderstand them, like a slug.
17"What about what's-her-name, your friend -- Yvonne?""On vacation in Majorca," snapped Aunt Petunia."You could just leave me here," Harry put in hopefully (he'd be able towatch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a goon Dudley's computer).Aunt Petunia looked as though she'd just swallowed a lemon."And come back and find the house in ruins?" she snarled."I won't blow up the house," said Harry, but they weren't listening."I suppose we could take him to the zoo," said Aunt Petunia slowly, "...and leave him in the car....""That car's new, he's not sitting in it alone...."Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn't really crying -- it hadbeen years since he'd really cried -- but he knew that if he screwed uphis face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted."Dinky Duddydums, don't cry, Mummy won't let him spoil your specialday!" she cried, flinging her arms around him."I... don't... want... him... t-t-to come!" Dudley yelled between huge,pretend sobs. "He always sp- spoils everything!" He shot Harry a nastygrin through the gap in his mother's arms.Just then, the doorbell rang -- "Oh, good Lord, they're here!" said AuntPetunia frantically -- and a moment later, Dudley's best friend, PiersPolkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy with a facelike a rat. He was usually the one who held people's arms behind theirbacks while Dudley hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn't believe his luck, was sitting inthe back of the Dursleys' car with Piers and Dudley, on the way to thezoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn't been ableto think of anything else to do with him, but before they'd left, UncleVernon had taken Harry aside.